# Staking & Delegation

This page explains staking and delegation.

Reapchain is a PoS blockchain, and Staking and Delegation are one of the core functions. These two features play an important role in promoting network security and engagement.

### 1. Staking

Staking is the process of deciding how much to stake tokens to maintain network security and stability. Staking provides the necessary funds to validators, nodes that perform block creation and verification on the network.

In the Reapchain network, a node must stake a minimum amount of funds to become a validator. Staked tokens are returned as rewards through event and transaction fees.

Staking is a method of exposing staked funds to risk to increase network stability and protect against attacks. When you stake funds through staking, you can receive a certain percentage of block rewards from the Validator.

To become a validator, you must self-delegate, and the amount varies depending on the type of validator.

* Standing Member : 44,000,000 REAP
* Steering Member : 100,000 REAP

And in the case of the Steering Member, only self delegation is possible, and the reward is the same even if you delegate more than 100,000 REAP.&#x20;

Therefore, if you are going to operating a Steering Member, we recommend that you only delegate up to 100,000 REAP.

### 2. Delegation

Delegation refers to the process by which individual users delegate their tokens to a Validator. Individual users can participate in network security by delegating tokens to the Validators they support.

Delegation is related to staking, where individual users can delegate their tokens to a Validator without having to stake them directly. This makes it easier to join the network.

Delegator receives a block reward of a portion of the tokens he or she delegates. Block rewards depend on the amount of tokens delegated and the number of blocks generated by the Validator.

If you are not a user operating a validator, you can only delegate to the standing committee.

In the Reapchain [Dashboard](https://dashboard.reapchain.org), you can delegate by connecting with your Keplr or Metamask wallet.



